ngspice Circuit Definition
==========================


ngspice Command Overview
========================
* All command arguments that take units, expect units to be in full SI units. Prefixes may be added to indicate the range.
* There are three important simulation modes,
  - Transient Analysis
  - DC-setpoint analysis
  - AC analysis
* All of these analyses need to have an input defined that is scanned over during the analysis. This is defined in the circuit
  by appending the ``dc`` and ``ac`` keywords to an voltage source.
  - the ``dc`` keyword sets the DC operating point and the ``ac X`` keyword sets the output to be devided by ``X``. 

Simulation Commands
-------------------
* ``PULSE(V1, V2, TD, TR, TF, PW, PER)`` with the following arguments:
  - ``V1``: starting voltage of the pulse Given in Volts or Amps depending on pulse type
  - ``V2``: 'peak' height of the pulse Given in Volts or Amps depending on pulse type
  - ``TD``: Delay time, the duration of time that passes until the pulse begins to rise (given in seconds)
  - ``TR``: Rise Time, Time it takes for the voltage to go from ``V1`` to ``V2`` (given in seconds)
  - ``TF``: Fall Time, Time it takes for the pulse to go back from ``V2`` to ``V1`` (given in seconds)
  - ``PW``: Time the pulse stays at ``V2`` (given in seconds)
  - ``PER``: Period, duration after which to repeat the sequence wait->Rise->hold->fall, defines the distance between pulses (given in seconds)
* ``ac st s f1 f2`` is an AC analysis. It sweeps the voltage input defined in the circuits over a range of frequencies.
  - ``st``: step type, is ``dec``, ``oct``, ``lin``. Defines the type of scan, either the octave is the measurement, the decade or it uses a linear frequency scale
  - ``s``: samples per step type
  - ``f1``: start frequency
  - ``f2``: stop frequncy
  - ``ac dec 100 1k 10meg``: Command that defines a scan from 1kHz to 10MHz with 100 samples per decade. (The plot is generally logarithmically)
* ``

Plot Commands
-------------
* the ``plot`` command plots data that was just generated by simulation onto a ngspice built-in canvas.
* The voltages at nodes can be viewed simply by writing the node name behind the ``plot`` command, separated by a space. 
* The type of information plotted depends on the type of simulation that was run to generate the data.
* ``plot in`` would plot the voltage at the node ``in``, with the plot type depending on the type of analysis that was just perfomed
* the plot command can plot output amplitudes in dB when ``vdb(<node-name>)`` is specified and ``cph(<node-name>)`` is specified, it plots the phase of the node relative to the input.
* In this the voltage is given in dB. So keep in mind when reading the resulting plots.

